# cs105-prj-phase2-mvb

The jupyter notebook, nbaEDA.ipynb, consists of analyzing NBA player statistics and trends. The datasets used were from Phase1, where Viraj Dhillon scrapped the data from Basketball Reference, and another dataset from Kaggle. These datasets contained information about player attributes, such as height, weight, etc, and also players numerical stats like points, rebounds, assists. I analyzed specific trends in NBA players, such as the correlation with how many average minutes a player plays and how many average points they score. I included multiple graphs and plots to help show this data. The code can be ran as a jupyter notebook and has comments and clarifications about the analysis. 

The jupyter notebook, MVB_proj_phase2, consists of coaching stats, and analysis on coach wins in the regular season compared to the playoff season. Bhagpreet Brar worked on this notebook, which used the 1950-2018 seasons of coaching stats from the NBA, all from the Basketball Reference website. The datasets contain information on playoff wins, losses, number of games for regular season and playoffs, and what teams a coach played on and how many seasons they've been with the team so far depending on the season being looked at. The data analysis consisted of comparing win percentages based off teams, win percentages based off groupings with coaches and team and coaches and season. Some analysis took place seeing if there was any correlation between the performance of the regular season and the playoffs.

The jupyter notebook, successful_teams_phase2.ipynb consists of cleaning useful datasets that will be used in the future to analyze some patterns in successful teams in the NBA. Additionally, this notebook includes some EDA which will give us a better understanding of our data, and more knowledge about what we will be analyzing additionally. The data sets were both crawled and downloaded directly. They include information about which franchise won championships, statistics of the championship performances, some key players on the team, and other information that will help us find trends in successful teams. After the cleaning and EDA, we are comfortable with using these datasets. This code can be run in jupyters notebook along with downloading our dataset. 


